apps/api/README.md, before:

# Node.js Express API

## Instructions

1. Fork [mfee-project repository](https://github.com/gus-code/mfee-project)
2. Make sure to fork all the branches (You need to unselect the checkbox of fork only main branch)
3. You can clone the repository to your local or you can create a codespace in github (We suggest to use your local because we will use postman to test it)
4. Checkout to branch `node/template` this is the starter boilerplate
    - `git checkout node/template`
5. From here you can create your own branch (We suggest to name it `node/<your_eid_here>`)
    - `git checkout -b node/<your_eid_here>`
6. We will be working with some examples during the sessions in this same repository, once we finish with the session you can get the example from the branch `node/session-*` and merge it to your branch (We will provide the branch after each session)
    - `git merge node/session-*`
7. Each session branch will have the challenges to accomplish and the expected results. You can validate if your endpoint is correct by [running the postman collection](#run-postman-collection)
8. After finish the challenges you need to create a pull request to the base repository, you will have a branch with your EID (`node/<your_eid_here>`). If you don't know how to do it you can check this [quick guide](#create-pull-request)

## Recommendations

- Use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
- Before make your commit format your files with prettier

## Challenges

### Session 01

- Create `route` for `posts` endpoint with the following methods:
    - `GET /posts` Return an array of all the posts with status code 200
    - `GET /posts/category/:category` Return an array of all the posts by category with status code 200
    - `GET /posts/:id` Return a post by id with category object and each comment object in the array with status code 200
    - `POST /posts` Create a new post and return the created post with status code 201
    - `POST /posts/:id/comments` Create a comment inside the post and return the comment with status code 201
    - `PATCH /posts/:id` Update post information and return the updated post with status code 200
    - `DELETE /posts/:id` Delete the post and return the deleted post with status code 200 or 204 if you decide to not return anything
    * *Add 404 validation where needed*

- Post model
    - id: string
    - title: string
    - image: string
    - description: string
    - category: string *Id of the category*
    - comments: array *Array of comment ids*

- Comment model
    - id: string
    - author: string
    - content: string

### Session 02

- Refactor the code from last session to add a post controller

## How to

### Run postman collection

1. Download postman collection from `apps/api/src/assets/mfee-node.postman_collection.json`
2. Import collection to postman
3. Configure url variable if needed. We set the default value to `http://localhost:3000` if you change the port you will need to update this, after updating the value you need to save it with `Ctrl + S`
![Postman - Variables](assets/postman-variables.png)
4. Once everything is in place you go to the folder you want to run and click "Run"
![Postman - Open tests](assets/postman-open-tests.png)
5. The endpoints will be displayed and you just need to click on "Run MFEE - Node.js"
![Postman - Run tests](assets/postman-run-tests.png)
6. After this a report will be show and all the test should pass
![Postman - Test results](assets/postman-test-results.png)

### Create pull request

1. Once you have your commit in place and you push your branch to your forked repository go to `Pull requests` option and then `Create pull request`
![GitHub - Create pull request](assets/github-create-pull-request.png)
2. Click under `compare across forks` to be able to select the main repository and make sure to select the following
    - Base repository: `gus-code/mfee-project`
    - Base: `node/<your-eid-here>`
    - Head repository: `<your-github-user>/mfee-project`
    - Compare: `<your-branch-name>`
    
    ![GitHub - Pull request branches](assets/github-pull-request-branches.png)
3. Check that the files you worked on are in place and then click `Create pull request`
4. Add the title with the following format `feat(session-*): <small-title-of-changes>` where * is the number of the session (01, 02, etc.). After that click again on `Create pull request`
![GitHub - Add title](assets/github-add-title.png)
5. After this we will review the PR, give feedback and merge it to your branch

Commit message:

feat(session-05): final work (#7)
* feat(api): add crud operations for category

* feat(api): add router

* feat(api): refactor crud operations to new file

* refactor(api): move logic from route to controller

* chore(api): remove .gitkeep from controllers

* feat(api): create user model

* feat(api): create auth controller

* feat(api): create auth route

* feat(api): add route to main file

* feat(api): add basic configuration

* feat(api): add verify token middleware

* fix(api): relocate cors config

* fix(api): cors issue for local development

* feat(api): add error handler middleware

* chore(api): remove .gitkeep file from config

* feat(api): add connection to MongoDB

* feat(api): create category model

* refactor(api): update required property in model

* refactor(api): connect controller with model

* chore(api): add session 01 challenges

* chore(api): add session 02 challenges

* chore(api): add session 03 challenges

* chore(api): add session 04 challenges

* chore(api): add session 05 challenges

* fix(api): refactor getCategory for future use

* refactor(api): update findByIdAndUpdate options

* fix(api): add message to 409 error in auth register

* install uuid

* implement posts MVC

* minor updates

* link posts to DB

---------

Co-authored-by: Gus <garciadelacruzgustavo@gmail.com>

apps/api/README.md, after:

# Node.js Express API

## Instructions

1. Fork [mfee-project repository](https://github.com/gus-code/mfee-project)
2. Make sure to fork all the branches (You need to unselect the checkbox of fork only main branch)
3. You can clone the repository to your local or you can create a codespace in github (We suggest to use your local because we will use postman to test it)
4. Checkout to branch `node/template` this is the starter boilerplate
    - `git checkout node/template`
5. From here you can create your own branch (We suggest to name it `node/<your_eid_here>`)
    - `git checkout -b node/<your_eid_here>`
6. We will be working with some examples during the sessions in this same repository, once we finish with the session you can get the example from the branch `node/session-*` and merge it to your branch (We will provide the branch after each session)
    - `git merge node/session-*`
7. Each session branch will have the challenges to accomplish and the expected results. You can validate if your endpoint is correct by [running the postman collection](#run-postman-collection)
8. After finish the challenges you need to create a pull request to the base repository, you will have a branch with your EID (`node/<your_eid_here>`). If you don't know how to do it you can check this [quick guide](#create-pull-request)

## Recommendations

- Use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
- Before make your commit format your files with prettier

## Challenges

### Session 01

- Create `route` for `posts` endpoint with the following methods:
    - `GET /posts` Return an array of all the posts with status code 200
    - `GET /posts/category/:category` Return an array of all the posts by category with status code 200
    - `GET /posts/:id` Return a post by id with category object and each comment object in the array with status code 200
    - `POST /posts` Create a new post and return the created post with status code 201
    - `POST /posts/:id/comments` Create a comment inside the post and return the comment with status code 201
    - `PATCH /posts/:id` Update post information and return the updated post with status code 200
    - `DELETE /posts/:id` Delete the post and return the deleted post with status code 200 or 204 if you decide to not return anything
    * *Add 404 validation where needed*

- Post model
    - id: string
    - title: string
    - image: string
    - description: string
    - category: string *Id of the category*
    - comments: array *Array of comment ids*

- Comment model
    - id: string
    - author: string
    - content: string

### Session 02

- Refactor the code from last session to add a post controller

### Session 03

- N/A

### Session 04

- N/A

### Session 05

- Create MongoDB database
- Connect to MongoDB database using mongoose
- Create models for Post and Comment
- Refactor the controller to retrieve information from database
    - *Tip: Use `populate` method to get data from reference id*
- **Extra**
    - Remove post comments from database when you delete the post

## How to

### Run postman collection

1. Download postman collection from `apps/api/src/assets/mfee-node.postman_collection.json`
2. Import collection to postman
3. Configure url variable if needed. We set the default value to `http://localhost:3000` if you change the port you will need to update this, after updating the value you need to save it with `Ctrl + S`
![Postman - Variables](assets/postman-variables.png)
4. Once everything is in place you go to the folder you want to run and click "Run"
![Postman - Open tests](assets/postman-open-tests.png)
5. The endpoints will be displayed and you just need to click on "Run MFEE - Node.js"
![Postman - Run tests](assets/postman-run-tests.png)
6. After this a report will be show and all the test should pass
![Postman - Test results](assets/postman-test-results.png)

### Create pull request

1. Once you have your commit in place and you push your branch to your forked repository go to `Pull requests` option and then `Create pull request`
![GitHub - Create pull request](assets/github-create-pull-request.png)
2. Click under `compare across forks` to be able to select the main repository and make sure to select the following
    - Base repository: `gus-code/mfee-project`
    - Base: `node/<your-eid-here>`
    - Head repository: `<your-github-user>/mfee-project`
    - Compare: `<your-branch-name>`
    
    ![GitHub - Pull request branches](assets/github-pull-request-branches.png)
3. Check that the files you worked on are in place and then click `Create pull request`
4. Add the title with the following format `feat(session-*): <small-title-of-changes>` where * is the number of the session (01, 02, etc.). After that click again on `Create pull request`
![GitHub - Add title](assets/github-add-title.png)
5. After this we will review the PR, give feedback and merge it to your branch
